Cape Town - Food Lover’s Market in partnership with Tru-Cape Fruit Marketing and several other organisations has collected well over R1.7 million to donate to food insecurity organisation FoodForward SA to help in its effort to fight hunger. The initiative, which is in its sixth year, saw the companies source funds through various campaigns, including matching donations by the public at Food Lover’s stores, where customers were urged to purchase meals during World Hunger Month for only 68c. On Tuesday, Food Lover’s and Tru-Cape handed over the cheque of their proceeds of about R1 710 338.04, which translates to 2 515 203 meals that FoodForward SA will distribute to communities and organisations in need across the country. Food Lover’s Market group HR and sustainability executive Andrew Millson said: “We are really happy to have come on board to participate in such a worthy cause, to be able to assist in raising funds to purchase so many meals for people in need. “This year when we sat down, we wanted to guarantee a million meals, and it’s amazing to see we exceeded that. I think getting our customers involved in the process played a big role in our turn-out. I think we raised over half a million meals alone through the public. As we see the prices of basic commodities go up, we realise how this kind of initiative positively impacts millions of South Africans in need.” While Tru-Cape was the campaign’s biggest donor, several companies and organisations, including Westfalia, Hexco, Crest Shelf, Wegro, African Fresh, Fresh Approach, The Fruit Farm Group and Dapper Market Agents, also participated in raising funds for the worthy cause. Tru-Cape managing director Roelf Pienaar said: “Since lockdown, people on the margins have only been harder hit, and all of us at Tru-Cape are deeply aware of the dire circumstances many find themselves in. “Sometimes the greatness of the need makes it seem too overwhelming to contribute, but even making small changes can have a deep and lasting impact on improving lives. We believe this initiative to be such a thing. So from day one of this important initiative by Food Lover’s Market, Tru-Cape has partnered to help feed the hungry, the most vulnerable people in our country.” FoodForward SA managing director Andy du Plessis said: “The partnership between Food Lover’s Market and FoodForward SA is now in its sixth year. Not only has this campaign raised much-needed funds to address endemic hunger, but it is also an opportunity to unite supply chain partners in the fight against hunger and create awareness of this growing problem.” “The past few years have been particularly challenging for SA, and the poor are always the worst affected. With more than 30 million people suffering from food insecurity, we must work together to eradicate hunger and malnutrition,” Du Plessis said. nomalanga.tshuma@inl.co.za Cape Argus