Cape Town - A non-profit company (NPC) headed by rape survivors has been launched to offer support and counselling to victims of gender-based violence and abuse, and aims to hold relevant structures accountable. Reverend and anti-gender-based violence activist June Dolley-Major’s alleged rape by a fellow Anglican, a bishop, has been in the news since 2015.  Her public battle with the Anglican Church, demanding action be taken, has resulted in two hunger strikes and a walk from Cape Town to Makhanda last year, where the alleged rape occurred. On Sunday, Dolley-Major launched Walk in the Shoes of Survivors (WITSOS) at the Portlands Indoor Centre. WITSOS is to provide support through counselling, with services extended to affected families. This will include family support at court appearances. It will work to hold the police, Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences units and the National Prosecuting Authority accountable, and ensure those who have breached their bail conditions are dealt with. Dolley-Major said GBV survivors are further “raped” by the system in the way that it handles cases of gender-based violence. “We are actually at a point where we are starting to lay charges against these institutions which are not doing what they’re supposed to be doing. We are now considering class action against the SAPS because I’ve had too many people report to me about the SAPS not acting,” Dolley-Major said. The non-profit organisation would be journeying alongside victims and work with the children and men to effect change in terms of combating GBV. “The reason we did this is also that there’s an 8.6% conviction rate. “There’s so many issues that happen when you report the matter to police; the affidavit is not taken properly and then you get a nolle prosequi (will no longer prosecute) when it comes to court, and a lot of other issues and that's why this NPC was established – to educate people, to empower people with regards to their rights,” Dolley-Major said. The NPC has three directors, Felicity Roland, Celesthea Peirang and Dolley-Major, all rape survivors. Services rendered will come at no cost and will be funded through donations. “My journey for the past few years has led me to homelessness – living on the streets – being vilified by my colleagues, being ousted by the archbishop and everyone else, so it's been a tough, difficult journey,” Dolley-Major said. “I’ve turned my pain to purpose and I’m living that purpose for life now because we are all three rape survivors, we know what it’s like to be a rape survivor, and so we are able to push much harder.” shakirah.thebus@inl.co.za Cape Argus