Cape Town - A Kraaifontein man has been found during a high-risk crime intelligence-driven intelligence operation, police said on Sunday.  Over the weekend the Provincial Extortion Task Team and Kraaifontein CID received information that a kidnapping victim was at a heavily guarded shack at Browns Farm, Philippi.  Western Cape police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said: “Members reacted swiftly, and on arrival at the location members had to breach the security gate to gain access into the shack. After further investigation members found the male with his hands and feet in constraints.  “He was positively identified as the abducted victim. After further investigation members also recovered the victim’s grey LDV Isuzu at an informal settlement in Samora Marcel and booked it in as an exhibit,” he said.  The man was taken to hospital for a medical evaluation. Meanwhile, a suspect is recovering after he was shot by police during a stand-off in a high-speed chase that took place in Mitchells Plain over the weekend.  Van Wyk said: “Members of Flying Squad were tracking a hijacked Audi A1. It is alleged the vehicle was hijacked in Manenberg, and it was later spotted in Mitchells Plain by members of the Flying Squad.” The driver had refused to stop the vehicle, which led to a high-speed chase in Mitchells Plain. One of the suspects then jumped out and SAPS members chased the vehicle, which was driving in the direction of oncoming traffic.  The driver tried to push the SAPS vehicle off Swartklip Road, while pointing at SAPS members with a firearm. Police then shot at the vehicle, which was brought to a standstill on the corners of Highlands Street and Montclaire Drive. The driver had been wounded and an imitation firearm was discovered on the passenger seat of the vehicle.  Van Wyk said: “The male was taken to a nearby hospital under police guard for medical attention. Cases of attempted murder and possession of a hijacked vehicle were registered for investigation. Vehicle was booked in as exhibit.” rafieka.williams@inl.co.za Cape Argus