Cape Town - Stellenbosch University (SU) has announced former high court judge and Constitutional Court judge, Justice Sisi Khampepe, as commissioner of an independent inquiry into allegations of racism at the university. This is after an inebriated white student Theuns du Toit, urinated on the desk and belongings of first-year student Babalo Ndwayana.  When questioned by Ndwayana, Du Toit said, “It’s what white boys do.” A few days prior, racial remarks were made against a black student at a law faculty dance. The commission is to investigate these two incidents and the current state of diversity, equity and inclusion within the university, SU said in a statement. SU rector and vice-chancellor, Professor Wim de Villiers, said the university is thankful that a person of Justice Khampepe’s calibre availed herself to assist. “As communicated before, we want to strengthen existing measures and we are implementing new comprehensive measures to combat such violations and continue to improve those measures on an ongoing basis.” The commission is expected to commence in mid-June. It will be closed proceedings with the identity, personal information and evidence strictly confidential. In 1995, Justice Khampepe was appointed one of the commissioners of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission by former president Nelson Mandela. She also served as Deputy National Director of Public Prosecutions in the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development.  In December 2000, she was appointed a high court judge, and in October, 2009 a justice in the Constitutional Court. Justice Khampepe retired in October, 2021. Leader of the provincial opposition, the ANC’s Cameron Dugmore, said they welcomed her appointment. Soon after the incident, Dugmore visited Ndwayana to see how they could move forward. “We need to look at the deep-seated institutional culture at the university. Also whether the university has done enough to address transformation and identify those resisting transformation, and those who are fighting transformation tooth nail,” he said. shakirah.thebus@inl.co.za Cape Argus