Cape Town - As people returned to beaches and pools to take advantage of the balmy winter weather this week, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) and police recovered two bodies adrift at sea in Hangklip and in Simon’s Town. NSRI Simon’s Town station commander Darren Zimmerman said the duty crew and police Dive Unit were activated following police reports of a body reportedly sighted by an eye-witness adrift off-shore of Long Beach in Simon’s Town shortly after 9am on Tuesday. “On arrival at the scene, the body of an adult male was recovered by police divers, taken onboard our sea rescue craft, and brought to our NSRI Simon’s Town rescue base. The body was then taken into the care of Government Health Forensic Pathology Services,” Zimmerman said. Police spokesperson Frederick van Wyk confirmed that Simon’s Town police together with the Diving Unit were on the scene where they removed the body from the water and took it to NSRI unit in Simon’s Town. “It appears that the man may have been a worker at a local road works and he had reportedly disappeared from his post at the road works in the early hours of the morning before being spotted in the surf-line later that same morning,” Zimmerman said. Half an hour later in Hangklip, the NSRI Kleinmond’s duty crew was activated following eye-witness reports of a body adrift off-shore between Gordons Bay and Kleinmond. NSRI Kleinmond training officer Michael Markovina said: “Our sea rescue craft was launched, accompanied by police divers, and on arrival on the scene, following a search, the body of an adult male was located and recovered onto our sea rescue craft by police divers.” Markovina said the body of the deceased man was brought to the Hangklip slipway, at Maasbaai, and the body was then taken into the care of Government Health Forensic Pathology Services. “Kleinmond police are investigating an inquest case after the body of an unidentified male was found by commercial divers on Tuesday at about 8:50am in Maasbaai, Pringle Bay. The police Diving Unit removed the body from the water,”  Van Wyk said. Markovina said it was not confirmed if the body of the deceased man was that of a man who went missing in the area over a week ago, but police are assisting the family in the case. Van Wyk urged anyone with any information about this incident to contact the investigating officer Detective Sergeant Elrico Isaacs on 079 894 1624. The police opened inquest dockets for both cases. kristin.engel@inl.co.za Cape Argus