Cape Town - The Cash In Transit Association of SA (Citasa) has revealed that there have been 17 cash-in-transit (CIT) heists since the start of the year. This after suspects bombed a CIT vehicle along the N7 on-ramp in Cape Town on Tuesday, which led to a frenzy on the busy road as bystanders swarmed the cash van to grab money that spilt on to the road. Police spokesperson Robert Netshiunda said the police arrested four suspects following the CIT heist. Netshiunda said it was reported that a Jeep driving along the N7 stopped abruptly in the middle of the road, causing a light delivery vehicle to collide with the cash van. He said the suspects were alleged to have used explosives to blow open the safe. One vehicle was reported to have caught fire during the robbery. “Members of the Durban National Intervention Unit responded to the robbery and during the shoot-out one suspect sustained a gunshot wound, while the other injured himself during the explosion,” said Netshiunda. He said both the security guard and the driver of the cash van also sustained gunshot injuries and were taken to hospital for treatment. A 9mm pistol with ammunition was recovered at the scene. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said medics assessed the patients and found that one suspect had sustained a gunshot wound to his buttocks, while another had sustained a gunshot wound to his right thigh, leaving him in a serious condition. Meiring said a security officer was also assessed and found to have suffered a minor abrasion to his head. "A total of four suspects, aged between 21 and 42 years old, were arrested and will appear before the Goodwood Magistrate's Court soon on charges of CIT heist, attempted murder, illegal possession of firearm and ammunition as well as possession of an explosive device," said Netshiunda. #CIT pic.twitter.com/k2psGWW9wq Netshiunda said a 72-hour activation plan has been instituted to hunt down other suspects who sneaked away from the scene with an undisclosed amount of money. Citasa's acting head, Grant Clark, said "the cash-in-transit heists are just becoming more prevalent, and we are concerned". Anyone with information can contact Crime Stop anonymously on 08600 10111 or via the MySAPS App. sisonke.mlamla@inl.co.za Cape Argus