Cape Town - The Department Urban Mobility and Safety and Security directorates are cracking down on motorists who drive under the influence. This after traffic officials from both departments nabbed 129 motorists for driving under the influence of alcohol during integrated road and traffic operations between July 4 and July 10. Commenting on the arrests, Mobility MEC Daylin Mitchell said that driving under the influence had re-emerged as a serious risk to road safety in the Province. “During the roadblocks, I found that while most motorists were compliant, there were a few exceptions – motorists who had no regard for the safety of other road users. Traffic officials arrested 73 motorists for driving under the influence – that’s one too many. This is why our traffic services continue to run 24/7 operations across the province.” Mitchell had joined provincial traffic officers during provincial integrated roadblocks on the West Coast and the Garden Route last week to review road user behaviour and to ensure that motorists were complying with the rules of the road. “Alcohol and roads don’t mix. Motorists should never drink and drive or walk. The smallest amount of alcohol can affect your judgment as a road user. If you are convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol, you will have a criminal record. Moreover, you could take the life of yourself and another person,” Mitchell said. During the Provincial Traffic Services’ operations, traffic officials also implemented 214 integrated roadblocks, vehicle checkpoints and speed control operations across the province. A total of 229 speeding offences were recorded, and 6 525 fines were issued for various traffic violations ranging from driver to vehicle fitness, according to the department.  In all, 45 vehicles were impounded and 42 were discontinued for unroadworthiness. Meanwhile, the City’s traffic officials arrested 79 motorists for various offences. Fifty-six of the drivers arrested were apprehended for driving under the influence. Traffic officers also impounded 142 public transport vehicles, executed 1 179 arrests for outstanding warrants and recorded 59 294 traffic violations. nomalanga.tshuma@inl.co.za Cape Argus