Cape Town - Five unhappy ANC Western Cape activists have handed over a memorandum of demands to the party’s Interim Provincial Committee (IPC) demanding the immediate withdrawal of the ANC from coalition arrangements in all municipalities across the province. Other demands included that the IPC immediately announce the date of the provincial conference and the immediate removal of IPC members from all interim regional structures. The group, which did not protest at the ANC offices as earlier planned, was led by Akhona Jonginamba and included Hout Bay community activist Roscoe Jacobs and a former South African Students Congress (Sasco) provincial secretary Siyabonga Nqanqase. Jongingama said: “If our demands are not met we will have no option but to defy the authority of the IPC in the province.” He said the IPC was imposed on the province by the party’s NEC in August 2019, and had been accepted in good faith, but was taking too long to deliver on its mandate. Jacobs said: “My view is that the ANC national leadership must disband the IPC as it has failed its mandate.” IPC co-ordinator Ronalda Nalumango met the group at the ANC’s offices in Constitution House on Adderley Street but before the meeting began asked them if they had the mandate of their branches. Nalumango said: “You talk about organisational discipline, so I hope you have the full support and mandate of your branches and have not come here just as individuals.” The five, who were mainly from the Dullah Omar region branch, admitted they had no mandate from their branch, but said they were just party members with concerns. Nalumango nevertheless accepted their memorandum and agreed to pass it on to the rest of the IPC and promised to get back to them once they had deliberated on the memorandum. Earlier, IPC convener Lerumo Kalako, said the group was within their rights to protest on the issues but that if they were an ANC Youth League structure they should have first contacted the IPC with their concerns before threatening to protest. mwangi.githahu@inl.co.za Cape Argus