Cape Town - Cape Town’s iconic Table Bay Hotel has found use for its previously used luxury linen by donating over R80 000 worth of bedding items to the Red Cross Children’s Hospital and Watersprites Nursery School in Kensington. Included in the donation was linen duvet covers, flat double bed sheets and pillow cases, mattress and pillow protectors, bath and hand towels, gowns and face cloths. Joanne Selby, the hotel’s general manager said:  “We are surrounded by incredible luxury at The Table Bay Hotel and that includes the finest linens. The conundrum for the hospitality industry is that linen needs to be replaced regularly even though the ‘old’ linen is still relatively new and of excellent quality. “To prevent our linen ending up as textile waste at landfill sites where it can take over 200 years to decompose, we make every effort to repurpose as many items as possible. We are especially delighted that our upcycling initiative will assist both of these very worthy organisations.” The linen was shared equally among the Red Cross War Memorial’s Children’s Hospital Trust and the Watersprites Nursery School. Chantel Cooper, the CEO of the Children’s Hospital Trust, was grateful for the donations from the hotel. “The Children’s Hospital Trust is an independent, non-profit organisation established to raise funds to support the Red Cross Children’s Hospital.  “Our committed team works hard to ensure that they raise the funds to meet the needs of the hospital. Your support means a lot to sick and injured children and we sincerely appreciate your belief in what we do,” she said. Watersprites Nursery School principal June Johannes was delighted to receive the bedding from Table Bay Hotel. “Table Bay Hotel heard from our school that we had a need for bedding items and donated some to us. It means a lot because now we can make mattress covers for the mattresses and we also intend to make chair bags from the linen,” she said. The hotel will also be making a third donation to the Kensington Educare Centre in the week. matthew.petersen@inl.co.za Cape Argus