Cape Town – Coffee lovers concerned about the impacts of their coffee capsules on the environment will now be able to breathe a little easier thanks to Nestlé. The company has announced that part of its continued drive to help meet its 2025 ambition of making 100% of its packaging recycleable or reusable, their “Starbucks At Home by Nespresso” coffee capsules are made using 80% recycled aluminium.  This is a first for the range, and Nestlé said that with aluminium being infinitely recycleable, the benefit of using the material was linked to the amount of energy saved in its production.  Nicole Roos, business executive officer for Beverages at Nestlé East and Southern Africa Region, said: “With every material we use to produce the capsules, we are committed to ensuring that none of our packaging ends up in landfill or as litter and aim to minimise the impact of our packaging on the environment.  “This includes advocating for adequate recycling infrastructure for coffee capsules regardless of the material used. In addition, aluminium can be re-melted and reused infinitely, giving it a second life.” The recycled aluminium comes from a variety of sources, including post-consumer scrap as well as scrap recovered during the production processes.  Using 80% recycled aluminium is not only better for the environment, but aluminium is also one of the best materials to keep freshness and protect aromas of the coffee.  It provides an exceptional barrier to oxygen, light and humidity and is therefore an excellent choice to protect volatile aromas and freshness for a long time. “By using 80% recycled aluminium, we demonstrate the recyclability of aluminium and want to encourage our consumers to recycle their aluminium capsules. “When we recycle the ‘Starbucks At Home by Nespresso’ coffee capsules you also help decrease the carbon footprint of your cup of coffee,” Roos said. “This is a key aspect of the Nestlé East and Southern Africa Region's ‘RE initiative’ that focuses on three key pillars, RETHINK, REDUCE and REPURPOSE, to tackle sustainability issues,” concludes Roos. The coffee capsules range is available in selected stores including Checkers, Pick n Pay, Spar and Makro as well as convenient online platforms including Takealot, Checkers Sixty60 and Pick n Pay Online. For more information, visit the website www.starbucksathome.com or brand social media pages @starbucksathome_sa.  For more information on Nestlé RE sustainability initiatives visit www.nestle-esar.com/RE Supplied