Cape Town - The Enyobeni Tavern deaths in the Eastern Cape have put underage drinking in the spotlight and Western Cape Liquor Authority (WCLA) chief executive Simion George says serious sanctions will be pursued in respect of any licensed outlets found to be allowing access or selling liquor to underage persons. George was commenting on a report on a global study that was carried in the authoritative medical journal The Lancet, which said alcohol consumption carries significant health risks and no benefits for young people, but that some older adults may benefit from drinking a small amount of alcohol. The survey comes at a time when there is a discussion in South Africa about raising the legal drinking age. It found that young people under 40 were at more significant risk of health problems than their older counterparts when drinking alcohol. The study said that for young adults aged 15-39, there were no health benefits to drinking alcohol, only health risks, with 59.1% of people who consumed unsafe amounts of alcohol in 2020 between the ages of 15 and 39 years and 76.7% of them male. George said the WCLA was pleased to see increased research conducted into the harms associated with alcohol and recommendations being made for policy interventions to create safer and healthier communities. “We will review this latest research to explore how the research findings can inform and enhance our regulatory systems and processes for greater impact determining public interest.” Noting the report’s findings, provincial Health and Wellness spokesperson Mark van der Heever said: “Irrespective of an individual’s health condition, it is imperative that those who choose to consume alcohol should do so responsibly and with moderation and consideration.” Van der Heever said that the 2019 Rapid Review of the Burden of Disease in the Western Cape had found that from 2010 to 2018 half of homicide victims tested positive for alcohol as had 48% of road traffic victims. He said 42% had blood alcohol concentration above the legal driving limit. “Our call is for everyone to be responsible and look after their own, and others’ health, with a particular focus on preventing trauma related incidents which require health-care intervention,” Van der Heever said. mwangi.githahu@inl.co.za Cape Argus