Cape Town - “Justice has been served” was the pervading sentiment in the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday where the two men convicted for the murders of two young women were sentenced to life imprisonment and more. The killings of 17-year-old Amahle Quku and 18-year-old Jesse Hess caused outrage when they were discovered in June 2020 and August 2019 because they brought the scourge of crimes against women into sharp focus and also shed light on the violent nature of the accused. The two teens were both sexually violated and strangled to death before they even entered adulthood. David van Boven was sentenced to two life terms imprisonment after he was found guilty of the murder of Jesse Hess and her 85-year-old grandfather, Chris Lategan. Van Boven was further sentenced to 20 years for robbery, eight years for sexual assault and three years for fraud. His co-accused, Tasliem Ambrose, was sentenced to six years for two counts of robbery. Van Boven, who seemed pleased with himself, smiled and nodded his head when Judge Judith Cloete made an order that one life sentence run concurrently with the sentences on the other convictions. In handing down judgment, she said about Van Boven: “He is completely lacking remorse. He believes he is entitled to do as he pleases, and to take whatever he wants, irrespective of the consequences to others.  “To my mind, this makes him a deeply disturbed individual, but it goes further than that, he is also an extremely dangerous one. The impression he has left this court is that he has no respect whatsoever for the rights to life, dignity and safety of persons and their property. “The strong message needs to go out that it is unacceptable to kill, rob, terrorise and violate others simply because you want their possessions.” Jesse’s father, Lance Hess, who was present at every court appearance throughout the trial, said that while he is pleased with the sentence, he hopes that the two do not get parole. “I feel a bit relieved that all of this is done, no more travelling up and down to court – it took a lot. It was very tiring but from here on out, I think our healing process will start. I think we as fathers who have lost their daughters should come out and speak about it,” Hess said. While Hess and Amahle Quku’s lives were violently taken, a rape survivor (Grace Mufadu) is still struggling to find work due to the scars inflicted at the hands of Leonard Mzingeli, who murdered Amahle Quku. She said she was grateful that she could live to tell the tale after being left for dead. “It won’t be easy moving forward, but I’m trying every day and I’m thankful to be alive. My message to other young women or whoever has gone through the same situation as me is to go forward. Don’t be scared, tell your story. It’s not easy to stand in that box … but it’s important,” she said. Speaking about the outcome of the trial, she said: “It was very tragic but I am very happy about the sentence. Today I believe justice was served so what more can we ask for.” Mzingeli was sentenced to three life terms imprisonment following his conviction on two counts of rape and one count of murder. He was further sentenced to 15 years imprisonment for attempted murder of the survivor who had to be resuscitated in hospital after he stabbed her more than 20 times during the attack. In handing down sentence, Acting Judge Nolundi Nyati said: “It is my view that it was not out of remorse that the accused pleaded guilty to killing Miss Quku, but rather the overwhelming evidence, including the DNA results. His actions are that of someone who cannot be rehabilitated outside prison.” Nyati also noted that if the survivor’s case was followed up and investigated when it was reported, Quku’s killing could have been prevented. She indicated that a copy of the judgment would be sent to the provincial police commissioner and that Mzingeli’s name be added to the national registry of sex offenders saying: “We cannot accept what happened as a norm.” After his sentencing, Mzingeli indicated to the court that he had something to say but by that time it was too late as he had refused to testify during trial. The Philippi community was present at court to show support for Quku’s mother, Mandulele, and celebrated the sentence in song on the steps of the high court. Philippi resident Pamella Ganiso said: “We know we cannot replace Amahle and she had so much to look forward to as a young woman but right now we are pleased that no other monster would easily take a life.” rafieka.williams@inl.co.za Cape Argus