Cape Town – Reebok has taken a different approach to Mandela Day this year, and will be helping Mduduzi Mnisi, a young entrepreneur from Soweto whose sneaker-cleaning business ‘MDU’ tragically burnt to the ground in a load-shedding accident. The brand, whose sneaker collection campaign is running until the end of the month, was hoping to raise R20 000 for MDU to get back to business and redistribute over 300 pairs of sneakers to communities in need.  They encouraged the public to support this campaign by donating an old pair of sneakers and dropping them at the nearest Reebok store. Reebok said all brands of shoes were welcome and for each pair, Reebok would donate R67 to MDU to clean the sneakers and restart his business.  The pre-owned sneakers would then be redistributed to MDU’s charities of choice in the Soweto area by Picup, a local delivery and logistics company. The donation boxes were available until 31 July at Reebok Canal Walk in Cape Town and Reebok Sandton City in Johannesburg. Reebok South Africa brand and omni lead Steffi Jones said: “The people of South Africa have always shown resilience and support for their fellow South Africans and we have no doubt they will step up once more to support a budding entrepreneur and give back in a way that would make Tata Madiba proud.” In addition, Jones said every pair donated guaranteed the donors an entry to win a limited edition, bespoke, Mandela-inspired Reebok Classic Leather sneaker, customised by local illustrator Ryan Carolisen (@illsketch). “Mduduzi and his passion to uplift his community embodies both the Ubuntu spirit of Nelson Mandela and the Reebok mindset that ‘Life Is Not A Spectator Sport’.  “We applaud his tenacity and want to assist him in getting MDU up-and-running again. What better way to do it than by bringing together Mzansi’s love for sneakers and togetherness?” Jones said. Jones said they had no doubt that Mnisi and MDU will be back in business by the end of the month with this campaign. “We are extremely grateful to our partner Picup, who will be handling the redistribution of the sneakers to communities in need, as well as the Reebok Movement Makers who will be challenging their followers to take part in this initiative,” Jones said. Cape Argus