Cape Town - The Covid-19 pandemic, current economy and lack of support has brought about the closure of yet another arts institute. The Art is Art Gallery announced that it would be closing its doors at the end of August, but not before one final group exhibition. “ENCORE” will launch on July 14 from 6pm until 10pm, and will feature works by Adolfo McQue, Liam Joubert, Kristi Marie Pretorius, Juanne-Pierre De Abreu, Kim Barton Lancaster, Jeremy Rose and Bongani Vincent. Art is Art founded by Reno Horn five years ago was first located in De Waterkant before moving to Buchanan Square, Woodstock, in September 2020. Horn said business prior to the Covid-19 pandemic had been good, with regular sales and visitors to the gallery. Events and exhibitions were well-attended and supported by the public. “The pandemic took a huge financial toll on the gallery as we still had to cover overheads, especially rent, during many months that we were not even able to open our doors.  “As restrictions were lifted we were able to have small exhibitions/ events again but people were reluctant to be in public spaces and the support or attendance we previously enjoyed suddenly trickled down to much smaller attendances,” Horn said. “The reality is that people are also now reluctant to spend money on art, which is not an essential product and in most cases a luxury item. Which brings us to the reasons for having to close our doors after all this time.”  The gallery provided a platform for lesser-known and disadvantaged artists, assisting with materials to create artwork, framing and to exhibit. Those unable to attend the opening night can visit the gallery on weekdays from 10am to 4pm and Saturdays from 11am to 2pm. The artwork will be available for purchase and can be found on the gallery’s website and social media platforms. The exhibition will conclude on August 13. Artist Jeremy Wayne Rose said: “Art has suffered in the last few years with regards to Covid-19 and tourism-related issues, but in struggle we blossom and grow. The closing down of another institute is hard felt throughout the art world but we will rise, we will adapt and grow from it.” For more information, contact Horn on WhatsApp at 071 339 3480 or email renohorn1@gmail.com shakirah.thebus@inl.co.za Cape Argus