Cape Town - Civil society organisations have begun preparing to commemorate Mandela Day 2022, organising and rallying behind projects that highlight this year’s themes, food security and climate change. The theme was announced by the Nelson Mandela Foundation ahead of the struggle stalwart’s birthday on July 18, with the call for communities internationally to “Do what you can, with what you have, where you are”. In Cape Town, several organisations have begun setting the tone for their planned goodwill projects by rallying for local residents, companies and businesses to support them.  One such organisation is food security organisation Chefs with Compassion (CWC), which is launching its third annual #67000litre Mandela Day soup cooking challenge. CWC national project manager Coo Pillay said: “In the spirit of Madiba, we are calling on thousands of home cooks, chefs, corporates and communities to give 67 minutes or more of their time to cook soup and raise awareness of hunger in South Africa.” Popular fundraising platform GivenGain is also calling on South Africans to join in the spirit of giving, urging those who will not be able to physically share their 67 minutes to use the platform to support a worthy cause or two. GivenGain spokesperson Jannie Smith said: “There’s no need to stand back if you can’t volunteer on the day. The theme for Mandela Day 2022 is to ‘Do what you can, with what you have, wherever you are, every little bit helps’. Smith said the average fund-raiser on GivenGain raises R7 500 in donations from their networks of friends, family and colleagues, on their own schedule, wherever they are in the world. Animal safety organisation TEARS Animal Rescue is also rallying for support, finally being able to facilitate volunteers at its shelters. For Mandela Day this year, TEARS is hosting projects to spruce-up the kennels and cattery at its facilities. “For 2022, our kennels and cattery are dreaming big and have put together some projects that we really need some helping hands with. Explore our Mandela Day projects, pick a project that is close to your heart and register.” For more information on how you can register with TEARS, please visit:https://tears.devman.co.za/devman/resource/35845/852077/ nomalanga.tshuma@inl.co.za Cape Argus