Cape Town - Three people were arrested for the murder of an off-duty policeman in Delft.  Although the officer, 31, was stationed at the Gugulethu police station, he was gunned down in Delft. The suspects robbed him of his vehicle before the investigative team recovered it in Elsies River. Police spokesperson Andre Traut confirmed that three suspects aged between 30 and 40 were arrested in the early hours of Sunday morning on charges of murder and hijacking. Once the suspects have been charged, they are due to appear in Blue Downs Magistrate’s court on Monday with the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation investigating the matter further. The police’s Operation Restore team also made an arrest of a 30-year-old man in Bothasig, convicted of serious and violent crimes. Also in Bothasig, an unknown man and a 21-year old and 28-year-old woman were found with Mandrax and “tik” to the value of R90 000. The man was also wanted on charges of murder, assault and possession of illegal firearms. He is still under investigation and is due to appear in the Bellville Magistrate’s Court alongside the two women. Police spokesperson Joseph Swartbooi said there were arrests made in Manenberg on Friday when the members of the Anti-Gang Unit found and recovered firearms in two separate incidents. Suspects aged 19, 23 and 49 were all arrested for possession of an unlicensed weapon and live ammunition. All suspects are due to appear in the Athlone Magistrate’s Court. He confirmed that arrests were also made on Saturday evening for possession of an illegal firearm and live ammunition in Cloetesville and Delft. A 19-year-old man and 42-year-old woman will appear in the Stellenbosch and Bellville Magistrate’s Courts respectively. Further arrests for possession of an unlicensed firearm were made in Milnerton, near the Joe Slovo Informal Settlement, and in Site C in Khayelitsha, with the suspects due to appear in the Cape Town and Khayelitsha magistrate’s courts. matthew.petersen@inl.co.za Cape Argus