Cape Town - Police have confirmed they are probing the cause of a bus crash on Saturday evening in which a 2-year-old child died and several other people were injured. They were later discharged from hospitals in George and Knysna. The bus was carrying 35 people, including a rugby team, staff, supporters and family members when it crashed down an embankment in the Wilderness area, outside George. Emergency Medical Service spokesperson Ross Campbell said, “It is believed the bus was travelling back to Wittedrift close to Plettenberg Bay after playing rugby at NMMU Saasveld, near George. They had apparently taken this road through the back of Wilderness to connect to the N2 as the Saasveld road is closed due to flood damage. “The bus was found down an embankment at an 80 degree angle on its side having crashed through a private residence’s deck,“ he said. Campbell further confirmed the toddler was declared dead on arrival. “Two men in their 30s were found trapped in the vehicle and in a critical condition. They required advanced life support interventions and their extraction took a long, combined effort led by Metro Rescue.” Southern Cape police spokesperson Christopher Spies said, “A culpable homicide docket was opened following the death of a 2-year-old boy at Wilderness Heights, outside George.  “The toddler sustained serious injuries and was declared dead by paramedics on scene; 29 occupants also sustained injuries and were all transported to hospitals in George by ambulance for further medical care.” Spies said three victims were admitted to hospitals at George and Knysna while the remaining victims were discharged on Sunday.  “The cause of the accident forms part of the ongoing police probe,“ Spies said. Meanwhile several suspects are due to appear in the Athlone magistrate’s court this morning following arrests over the weekend.  Police spokesperson Andre Traut said, “The recent gang violence in Manenberg has seen the deployment of the Anti-Gang Unit and other additional operational forces in the area to bring stability to this volatile situation.  “During the early hours of Sunday morning, a high density foot patrol by these forces led to the arrest of a 37-year-old suspect who was caught in possession of an unlicensed revolver and ammunition in Allison Court Heideveld.” He said further arrests were made in Grassy Park where four suspects, two males and two females aged between 32 and 48, were found with prohibited firearms hidden in a dog kennel and an assortment of drugs.  The Delft Crime Prevention Unit members also found a 39-year-old man in possession of a 9mm pistol and ammunition while a 65-year-old man is also awaiting his court appearance today for having the same kind of firearm in his possession. rafieka.williams@inl.co.za Cape Argus